fora TV the world is thinking how about
the price of the car one of the things
that we've done is we've taken the price
of the battery off of the car it's not
your battery in effect it's a mini crude
oil well that gets consumed over time
it's a consumable component not a
component of the car and without that
component the cost of an electric car
bill of material today roughly around
twelve thirteen thousand dollars
Logistics advertising marketing dealers
margin you name it those cars will be
roughly in the twenty thousand dollars
u.s. dollars range which by the time
2012 we launched across Australia I
would assume that it would be less than
20,000 australian dollars given the
currency fluctuations around the world
with that in mind we actually have a
very interesting car not only that most
countries around the world have created
an incentive plan to get manufacturing
to high volume because we're starting
from absolute zero in a market that
makes about 50 to 70 million cars a year
and so to create an incentive to
generate the first cars in the world
that go electric governments around the
world have put an incentive plan in
place I'll give you a few examples
France five thousand euro per electric
car us seventy five hundred dollars
China nine thousand dollars Japan about
ten thousand dollars UK about 5,000
pounds every country created a different
incentive plan in some cases it's a
bonus to the guy who buys the car in
some cases they put a tax if you picked
the wrong car the ultimate tax system
was the Danish one if you buy an
electric car no tax if you buy a
gasoline car petrol car one hundred and
eighty percent tax in other words if you
want to sedan in Denmark it will cost
you about fifty thousand dollars to buy
fifty five thousand dollars to buy the
sedan if you want an electric sedan it's
about twenty thousand dollars to buy and
it's sort of an IQ test they want you to
move to Norway if you pick the wrong car
so we created a more convenient car that
is actually cheaper to build we didn't
build a
we don't make the car we went out to the
car companies around the world and the
first one to pick up on this ideas
renault renault came up and originally
thought this would be a great experiment
roughly about to three thousand cars a
year in israel that was the first
country that said let's go do it it's a
great story behind that and i'll tell
you that in a second but they thought
it's going to be 3,000 4,000 cars at
best in israel that's the amount of cars
they sell every year in israel renault
cars they sell in israel once they
realize the pricing model and the price
differentiation it is now a car that's
slated to sell about 150,000 in the next
3-4 years the second part the upgraded
version is already planned to sell more
than a million cars in the first five
years it's the first mass-produced
electric car in history what does it
mean mass-produced it went through the
entire cycle of production through the
entire industry source from various
different places all the components are
made in mass production in high volume
and the first car was actually put
together about a month ago and we drove
it it drives twice faster than its
sister gasoline sister it has
acceleration that is actually pretty
dangerous for most young drivers it has
absolute top torque torque is like is
what you feel when you get planted into
your seat at zero kilometres an hour as
you press the pedal it makes no noise so
we're going to download dr tones into it
you'll be able to pick the sound of your
car imagine driving a renault car but
making the sound of the ferrari that
will cost you more per kilometer by the
way but you're able to create a new
experience with that car one that is
better and cheaper and more convenient
than today's cars